# 2024-01-11

First meeting of the (revamped) infra team.

Participants: delroth, hexa, raitobezarius, vcunat, zimbatm

## [zimbatm] Presentation

- At NixCon, we added new people to the team, but we were not able to give space
  to those new people, with this in mind, I would like to dedicate one hour per
  week or two weeks where I can unblock the infrastructure matters.
- I don’t know what people are interested in, I believe this is a volunteer
  ecosystem and you should work on what you would like to work on.
- We have big challenges in front of us, e.g. the cache situation, with a new
  team, maybe we can tackle those bigger challenges.

## Round of intros

Skipped in these edited notes.

## [raito] Recommending hexa for infra-core

- Consensus: yes please.
- [zimbatm] Done.
- delroth/vcunat to assist with onboarding, provision access, etc.

## [delroth] Matrix Homeserver situation

- EMS is dropping legacy plans after 2024-01-17
  - https://github.com/NixOS/infra/issues/325
- We are getting dropped.
- We need to react but Graham, owner of the EMS account, is not reacting.
- The problem is not the cost but access to the account.
- delroth/hexa are in favor of self-hosting.
  - But we need the database dump from EMS.
  - hexa to prepare the config for this, delroth can act as backup/fallback.
- Fallback: we can always pay the $1200 (excl. VAT) for renewing the 1 year
  plan.

## [hexa] Moving NGI out of nixos-org-configurations

- Goals: unblock ngi0 maintainers, less consumption of our review bandwidth.
- Should we move them to a new repo?
  - Either in the nixos GitHub org or the ngi-nix org.
- Action item: let's ask them!
  - https://github.com/NixOS/infra/issues/326

## Builders

- Context: various cost reduction efforts need to happen on the Hydra/ofborg
  builders infra.
- There might be the possibility to get Hetzner to sponsor one more machine.
- [delroth] Pretty sure we are not using our build resources efficiently as it
  is (queue-runner bottleneck)
- [vcunat] xz compression is the main problem
- [zimbatm] We should properly analyze where the bottlenecks are.

## Backups

- We are not doing proper backups of the NixOS infra.
- There is an rsync.net account where the Hydra database gets backed up to, at
  least.
- Julien's vaultwarden PR is currently blocked by this, we're getting backup
  storage space from Hetzner (storage boxes).
