# 2024-02-08

Attendees: delroth, edolstra, hexa, JulienMalka, raitobezarius, vcunat, zimbatm

## [delroth] FYI on availability next few weeks

- Traveling until mid-April, low availability, will be on JST timezone (UTC+9)
- Missing for the next 2 infra meetings

## [delroth] Backups situation

- How do we backup haumea, long term?
  - borgbackup isn't really a good fit for a 500GB Postgres DB.
  - Currently: zrepl to my personal infra and hexa's, but that's obviously not a good long term
    solution.
  - Used to have backups to graham's rsync.net account, but that's broken since mid-Jan.
  - [raito] Have you ever tried pg_dump's optimized dump format?
    - [delroth] Is it fast enough to do a daily dump?
    - [raito] unsure, but there are ways to do incremental backups:
        - pg_basebackup + pg_dump compressed format

## [hexa] Migration of Synapse from EMS

- Apparently waiting for EMS to sort out removal of PII?
- [raito] As long as there's discussion happening between Graham and EMS we probably don't have to
  care about this, the legacy hosting plan is not getting cancelled.
- [raito] If anything goes wrong we'd likely get notified.

## [eelco] Move fastly log aggregator to pluto

- This is currently running on Eelco's local machine which is suboptimal.
- Weekly script that takes Fastly logs and loads them into AWS Athena + generates some aggregates.
- https://github.com/NixOS/infra/tree/master/metrics/fastly
- We will put that on the new Eris: Pluto
- [eelco] I will need to create an AWS IAM to bestow the adequate permissions to enable the script
  to run on Pluto.
    - [eelco] I just need read/write access to Athena and some S3 bucket.
- [delroth] Who is using this data?
    - [eelco] You can see on that page that the reporting is generated via this data
- PII data regarding access logs of cache.nixos.org
    - [everyone] What kind of policy do we want regarding PII and the non-critical infrastructure?
      e.g. new wiki access logs are available to the non-critical infrastructure
        - Let's take note of this, think about it for the next weeks

## [delroth, hexa] Machine changes

Our spend on outdated AWS EC2 instances and EBS volumes is too high and we are cutting back on our
use of EC2 and instead renew our infra at Hetzner.

- Reduce AWS spending
    - Started pruning old snapshots and EBS volumes (e.g. nixos-webserver, old nixos versions)
        - [eelco] I think it should be fine to delete them. There's a small risk there could be some
          historical data, for instance, our subversion repo used to be there as well and the
          nix-dev mailing list too. In theory, we have copies of all of that.
        - [delroth] I might start an instance and extract the data out there otherwise I will just
          delete it.
        - [eelco] There was a lot of scratch space for something… I don't remember it.
        - [delroth] I think it was bastion and is now paused.
    - Bastion is now stopped/paused
        - [hexa] Migrated to Eris and now to Pluto
        - [hexa] Channel scripts are running way faster
        - [raito] :tada:
    - Pinged survey.nixos.org owners (@garbas), to get the limesurvey instance migrated to something
      more reasonable
        - [hexa] $ 150 USD/mo
        - [hexa] Proposal: Migrate to Hetzner Cloud for a fraction of the costs
        - [delroth] I asked Julien to look into it
        - [delroth] In general, it's open to anyone who are looking to do non-critical work
    - Archeology machine from the cache team
        - [delroth] Jonas, can you look into the cost? And can we make it start on-demand?
        - [jonas] asking edef whether they can accomodate these changes]
- Hetzner machine renewal
    - Phasing out eris.nixos.org (EX41S-SSD, Intel i7-6700, 64GB RAM, 2x 256GB SATA)
        - [hexa] Old hardware
    - Created and deployed pluto.nixos.org (EX44, Intel i5-13500, 2x512GB NVME)
        - [hexa] Slightly cheaper but modern hardware
        - [hexa] Everything migrated except for monitoring
        - [delroth] Some disentanglement required to migrate monitoring

There's a potential of around $700/month of savings in all those operations. That is, we're
offsetting our whole current Hetzner spend with those AWS savings.

- [delroth] Future savings (more involved):
    - [delroth] Two layers of storage for cache.nixos.org: warm paths on Hetzner
    - [delroth] It might be easier to do that stuff on NixOS releases S3 bucket (much smaller
      bucket) and it's costing ~1000 USD per month in **bandwidth**

## [julien] Opening non-critical to more members

- [Julien] Idea of non-critical infra was to lower the barrier to entry, because people could be
  trusted with less risky infra
    - [Julien] I would like to post a Discourse post to look for new people who might be interested
      to join the team
    - [Julien] It seems like we have some issues open for non-critical infra and let people to
      tackle them and could constitute a first project
      - [delroth]
        https://github.com/NixOS/infra/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Anon-critical-infra
    - [Julien] I think it's a good time to do such a post and reach out
    - [Julien] I wanted to know with everyone if it was okay to invite new people
    - [delroth/zimbatm] Yes
    - [delroth] I think the most important thing is to know who will take care of onboarding and
      leading the work
    - [Julien] I am ready to handle the onboarding load and the lead, I would prefer to manage
      newcomers rather than do all the stuff by myself

## [delroth, hexa] Deployment changes

We removed nixops and deployment now happens from a `flake.nix`. The plan is to go for colmena
eventually.

- Deployment via `nixos-rebuild --flake .#<host> --target-host root@<host>.nixos.org
  --use-substitutes switch`
- NixOps generated configuration was imported and is being migrated, for example we:
    - started using agenix for secrets management and imported existing secrets
    - and migrated Network configuration to systemd-networkd/resolved


## [delroth, hexa] Infra Changelog

- All machines are now running on NixOS 23.11
- Migrated haumea's database to PostgreSQL 16
- Align timezone across machines
- Fix backup of haumea's database
    - zrepl to delroth and hexa
    - rsync.net stopped working due to zrepl API version mismatch
- Enabled trimming and scrubbing on all ZFS pools

- Fix the fastly-exporter deployment
    - Migrated to nixpkgs module, which [required its own
      fixes](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/pull/287348)
    - Generated a new API token, the old one was invalid
    - 📊 [Dashboard](https://monitoring.nixos.org/grafana/d/SHjM6e-ik/fastly?orgId=1)
- Fixed [race condition and world-writable state
  file](https://github.com/packethost/prometheus-packet-sd/issues/15) upstream in packet-sd
- Added alerting for
    - Failed systemd units
    - [Domain expiry](https://github.com/NixOS/infra/pull/249) within the next 30 days
- Lazy loading of eval errors on hydra (Patch by @ajs124)
    - Reduces page sizes on the common jobsets/evals by 15-20MB to a few kBs
    - More work needed, because error logs are still being fetched from the DB, just not rendered
- Services migrated to pluto.nixos.org
    - channel-scripts/hydra-mirror
    - netboot
    - rfc39
- Removed and refactored legacy code, e.g.
    - hydra-provisioner
    - delft/network.nix
