# 2024-02-08

Attendees: delroth, hexa, JulienMalka, lheckemann, raitobezarius, vcunat, zimbatm

## [hexa, delroth] EMS Migration

Context: https://github.com/NixOS/infra/issues/325

- PR for Synapse and its dependencies is up.
  - https://github.com/NixOS/infra/pull/336
- [Julien] What's the status of the backup module?
  - Split off into its own PR and merged already: https://github.com/NixOS/infra/pull/345
- raito and Ron met with Matrix / EMS folks at FOSDEM 2024
  - They have scripts for GDPR compliance (user data purge), but we need to ask them by email.
  - Then we can get a clean DB dump, presumably without user data.
  - Not sure whether we sent an email or not. But Graham might be in contact directly, and EMS folks
    made him an offer to do the data deletion.
  - Worst case Graham/DetSys will pay for the extension of the EMS plan.
  - Probably no hurry anymore from the infra side. Foundation board is monitoring this to make sure
    we have a solution at some point.

## [delroth] Should we publish these notes more widely?

- There is a trend towards publishing notes on Discourse, etc. for visibility.
- [delroth] My thoughts: we should archive (edited) notes in Git somewhere in our docs/ folder,
  update a Discourse thread every 2 weeks.
  - I of course volunteer to take care of this :)
- Consensus: let’s do it.

## [delroth] Packet/EQM access to infra-core

- Our builders are very, very outdated. But risky to try and update stuff with 0 debugging
  capabilities.
- Any reason why infra-core shouldn’t have full Packet/EQM access like we have Hetzner access?
  - Not entirely clear who currently has access?
  - [zimbatm] Got access from eelco last weekend, will delegate.
- [raito] Does nix-netboot-serve run on our infra?
  - [hexa] Yes, on eris. The images are also built from our infra, it’s a Hydra jobset. But the
    jobset has not successfully completed for a year.
  - [hexa] We can update stuff, but we have no way to debug issues if we do so.
- zimbatm took care of it live, woo!

## [raito] Stay in the loop of infrastructure matters

- How should work be split between zimbatm/raito?
- Would like access to private infra stuff to act as secondary.
- In general: who should have ownership to accounts?
  - A bunch of GH org owners for example are inactive.
  - Not really aligned with any subgroup e.g. foundation board.
  - [zimbatm] I think the foundation should have access, but unfortunately the foundation also
    doesn’t have the best personal security to hold those credentials.
  - [zimbatm] Maybe it should be the infra team instead? i.e. delroth/hexa/vcunat/…
  - [raito] That would work too, as long as it’s active folks who can take care of day to day stuff.
    I don’t care that it’s specifically me, just that we don’t get blocked due to not finding an
    owner.
  - [zimbatm] I don’t feel like I can make that decision alone right now. Let’s find some kind of
    organization which makes sense.
- Raito got invited into the private infra matrix channel (at least, for now)

## [Julien] NixOS wiki collaboration w/ infra team

- We have a bunch of candidate sysadmins in mind. Do we want to merge this into non-critical-infra?
- [Julien] I’m a bit biased since I’m sitting on both sides of this discussion, but I think this
  would be a good onramp to bring more people into non-critical-infra.
- [zimbatm] We can subdivide permissions on the Hetzner Cloud side of things, but I’m not sure
  whether we should share stuff further.
- [hexa] They have their setup mostly figured out already, including backups. We can let them run
  with it for now, and we can always pick it up later.
- [linus] What about inviting them to non-critical-infra and just giving them access to all the
  non-critical-infra? Even if they just want to maintain the wiki.
  - [hexa] It’s about responsible for all of it. I don’t think we should grant unneeded access.
  - [Julien] +1.
  - [delroth] I feel like if it’s official, we should treat it as such and onboard it as part of
    non-critical infra. Doesn’t require giving them access to everything.
  - [linus] If it is official, then it should be maintained by the official infra team
  - [hexa] I think we’re mostly in agreement then.
- [delroth] non-critical-infra should be restricted to the relevant directories and go through PRs
  for touching other stuff
  - [Julien] They probably want to iterate fast in the beginning
  - [delroth] They should get a dedicated machine on Hetzner Cloud, that they can play with
  - [Julien] Too much shared code will increase reliance on core infra members.
- [delroth] Action items
  - Let’s give them SSH access to a Hetzner Cloud VM
    - Or a separate project so they get direct access to machines. Might already be done.
  - Let’s make sure we agree on the idea of moving this to non-critical-infra in the short/mid-term
    future
  - Provision DNS etc.

## External requests

- Hydra DB access (raitobezarius)
  - Hashing out details in https://github.com/NixOS/infra/issues/348
- CA derivations for Hydra (Ericson2314)
  - Nix 2.20 broke interop with the old Nix 2.13 we run on builders. Rolled back to 2.19.
    - https://github.com/NixOS/nix/issues/9961
  - DB schema change applied.

## Ongoing projects

- [delroth] Hoping to complete the nixops deprecation this week. Then: core/non-critical-infra
  alignment.
