# 2024-03-21

Attendees: hexa, vcunat, Linus, zimbatm, Eelco, Janik, raitobezariusm, Alex

## Round table
- zimbatm
    - had no spoons to think about cache
- vcunat
    - expensive nixos tests that could be improved
    - noticed `nixos-disk-image.drv` steps taking a long time in send/receive phase
- hexa
    - unhappy with the board decision to let Anduril sponsor, like delroth. At an impass. We need to find a way to work on this together.
    - not sure if delroth is ultimately out.
    - don't want to burn out if delroth is gone.
    - I also don't want to invest time, when the org agrees to military sponsorship.
    - Next step: get to the policy, connect with delroth to see if we can keep working on it together or not.
- Janik
    - opened issue after the open board calls about meeting infrastructure. https://github.com/NixOS/infra/issues/401
    - PR with Jitsi probably soon.
    - Do we have a database for the pads?
        - hexa: should be colocated with the machine.
    - Jonas: do we have hardware for this?
    - hexa: we can try it on caliban. If it grows too big we can move it.
- Linus
    - happy to review what Janik is doing.
    - happy to pair with anyone
- Eelco
    - what the plan with the self-hosting?
        - still in discussion, we intend to a do some exploration with Ceph
    - we still need to find a way to pay for the cache.
- Alex Ou
    - NixCon NA attendee.
    - Interested in infrastructure, their main use of NixOS, managing bare-metal fleet of servers
- Raitobezarius
    - Concerned with the state of the infra, due to delroth ragequitting.
    - Tigris Data: CDN+S3 built on top of fly.io that migth be interested in sponsoring us.
    - Meeting with PCH.org: have hundreds of datacenters, they can offer everything in terms of storage infra.
        - Lots of POPs
        - Storage
        - ...
        - Proposition in progress.
    - Would like to update the set of people in the infra core for inactive people, in order to be able to reason on who has access, so we can reason about trust.
        - Eelco?
        - Graham?
        - Amine?
        - Proposal: remove access, and restore if needed
        - Eelco agreed. (Actually Eelco needs to reconsider.)

