# 2025-04-17

Atttendees: zimbatm, arian, erethon, hexa, Mic92, jfly

- zimbatm:
  - Official leadership rotation to hexa
  - Rotation permissions for zimbatm and eelco in various places
    - Gandi
    - GitHub
    - others...

- erethon:
  - Security bug tracker: Development is restarting
    - https://tracker.security.nixos.org/
  - Want to restart makemake.ngi.nixos.org, who has access to the Hetzner Robot
    account if things go south?
    - Remote KVM via Infra
    - Infra-Build holds Hetzner Accesss
    - @Mic92 mentioned Hetzner supporting Subaccounts, let's investigate that
  - Go-neb Deprecation
    - Still WIP
    - https://github.com/NixOS/infra/issues/549#issuecomment-2782452767
    - Links to Grafana/Prometheus/Alertmanager would be useful

- hexa:
  - Onboarding US Macs (delegated to Arian)
    - Winter has worked on getting Apple Business and Mosyle
  - DNS migration
    - Prompted by shared access with Marketing to Netlify
  - Adopted hopeful-rivest (RX170)
  - Mailserver
    - Authenticated Receive Chain
    - Will get Commit Access to nixos-mailserver
    - nixcon.org Mail Migration

- arian:
  - AWS Account cleanup and audit
    - Did an audit of all access to the Logicblox account

    - Can somebody copy over the messages I sent in infra-internal about my
      research there? I lost access to my Matrix history due to deleting it
      because of the spam issue.
    - Going to disable unused high-privilege IAM roles and users that are
      probably from the Logicblox days
    ```
    I am going to disable the roles accessible by that account now.  And I suggest we delete them in a few weeks if nobody complains?

    There is also some other external account ids that are in use:

    * 297794765570 (has read only access. Seems to be from the same time as 33233536009 which has access to the same read only role).
    * CrowdStrike (has access to audit logs. hasn't accessed our account on like 500 days. Delete?) 
    * CloudCheckr (accessed some metadata a few hours ago. Seems to be an AWS cost management tool)
    * Fastly logs (this makes sense)
    * Duckbill Group (makes sense but maybe we can delete now?)
    ```

  - Do we want to terraform the AWS management account?
  - Want to enable CloudTrail audit logging for all our accounts in our
    management account.
  - Working on moving AMI builds out of Hydra to GHA. Almost done. Uses qemu
    emulation for the aarch64 build as opposed to KVM but works fine.
    https://github.com/NixOS/amis/pull/262
    - Mic and I had the plan to do the same for ISOs at
      https://github.com/NixOS/images - do we still want to work on that?
  - Planning to meet up with edef semi-regularly regarding s3 stuff
  - Wanted to look into the Glacier migration or Intelligent Tiering
    - 60 EUR worth of access to "old paths"
    - Intelligent Tiering Transitions might easily become more expensive than
      that

- Mic92
  - Idea: Fastly Pull-Through Cache for GitHub Releases
    - To have stable URLs and allowing us to move them in the backend as needed

- jfly
  - Does a cache hit by fastly prevent an access log entry at AWS S3?
    - Cache at fastly can be hot, while things are in low priority tier at AWS
      S3
