# 2025-05-29

Attendees: erethon jfly edef infinisil

- erethon:
  - Sent ~600 emails on the 16th of May from ngi@nixos.org, everything worked
    great.
  - Security tracker:
    - Sounds like reusing nix evals from a different host is still far away.
    - Will spin up a staging instance next week (as discussed two weeks ago).
  - No updates from upstream on the two matrix-alertmanager PRs from two weeks
    ago.
- edef
  - Going to give moving a bunch of things to Glacier a try with Arian
  - infinisil: AWS is sponsoring a lot per month
  - edef: Get a little headroom, can use credits for other things
  - Discussion between @infinisil and @edef about spending the money the
    Foundation has set aside for long term cache issues
    - Related conversation about companies donating hardware to the foundation.
      We don't currently have a place to put that stuff.
  - Good solution per @edef:
    - Have a rack in each continent
    - Own hardware to put in those racks
    - ~500TB - 1 PB
  - infinisil takes note and will consider developing a concrete action plan to
    go ahead
- Hydra queue runner improvements
  - Some work is happening, but unclear status
  - General status: Not building stuff yet
  - @conni2461 (Simon hauser) working on this
  - @Mic92, @hexa meeting with Simon every 2 weeks
  - No repo yet afaik
- infinisil: https://github.com/NixOS/infra/issues/700
  - Asked hexa in the room
  - Flake seems good (https://cyberchaos.dev/e1mo/freescout-nix-flake)
  - @dgrig: consider looking at [Zammad](https://zammad.com/en)
  - Can try out both
  - @jfly will work with @infinisil to get this deployed
  - @jfly: Backups?
    - zrepl
    - @infinisil foundation board is okay with trusting the infra team on
      maintaining confidentiality
    - maybe only keep 1 year of backups?
